[AUDIO LOGO]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Hello.
I'm Reece Jones.
And welcome to module
3, Living Lucidly.
Today, we're going to take a
look at a few different ways
to bring more lucidity
into your day-to-day life.
Not only is this
a great practice
for your mental health,
but also in time,
the lucidity you train yourself
to experience in your waking
hours will start bleeding
into the dream world too.
So let's start by circling
back around to meditation.
We talked about this
in the first module
in the context of
improving dream recall.
But it's worth touching on
again as it's so much more
than just a recall tool.
In fact, if used
properly, meditation
can enhance all
aspects of your life.
Better memory, better sleep,
better focus, and so on.
If you followed my lead
in the first module,
you'll have introduced a short
meditation into your routine
just before bed.
And that's great.
But now, I want you to expand
the practice into your mornings
too.
This way, you'll end the
day and start the day
as you mean to go on lucidly.
As I said before, the sessions
don't have to be lengthy,
we're not looking to become
enlightened here necessarily.
So two 15-minute sessions
is absolutely fine.
And if you can stay consistent
with this over time,
you'll reap the benefits in your
dreaming and waking life alike.
Another thing we talked about in
the first module was sobriety.
Again, this was
something we encouraged
to help dream recall.
But just like
meditation, I'd now
like you to consider
bringing sobriety
into more of your life.
Maybe you started by eliminating
a drinking night each week.
And if so, great.
But now I'd like you to
consider going an entire week,
perhaps, two completely dry.
Once you're
successful with that,
consider doing an entire month.
Personally, for me, I've been
sober for over five years now
and I think the pros
far outweigh the cons.
However, I understand if you
feel some resistance to this.
Most people do.
At the very least though, I
recommend thinking about it
and perhaps exploring where
that resistance is coming from.
To me at this point in my life,
I view sobriety and lucidity
almost as synonyms.
And so the pattern continues.
The clearing of space,
the purification of mind.
In the last one or two hours
of wakefulness each day,
try making some time for
what I call a sacred period.
Essentially, this means
an hour or two before bed.
Cut off all electronics,
dim the lights,
stop eating, stop
exercising, make it
a stress-free time in all
regards, a special time.
During which you can meditate
as we laid out a moment ago,
you can read too.
You can continue entertaining
yourself as you were.
But it should be done
in a dialed down fashion
and without blue light
from electronics affecting
your melatonin levels.
Before this sacred
period begins,
it's also recommended
you go for a walk.
It doesn't have to be a full
blown hike, although that's
certainly not a bad idea,
but at the very least,
you should go for a stroll
whilst the sun setting.
A dusk walk.
Don't bring any entertainment
with you, just yourself.
Perhaps, a loved one.
And as you walk, stay
mindful and present.
This is good for a
few different reasons.
Firstly, if you
time it during dusk,
you'll be sending the right
signals to your brain.
It will see the dimming
light and recognize
that as a cue to start ramping
up melatonin production, which
will set you up wonderfully
for sleep later on.
Secondly, by getting
some exercise in,
you'll be wearing down your
physical body just enough
so it's ready for sleep.
And thirdly, by walking
without any entertainment,
you can treat this as
another meditation period.
Another chance to
clear your mind.
Perhaps, you could even
walk while silently
repeating a mantra to yourself.
Like, "tonight I
will lucid dream,"
"tonight I will lucid dream."
"Tonight I will lucid dream."
Lucid living takes
many different forms
and should eventually spread
into all aspects of your life,
from the little to the big.
The big things
like meditation are
easy to point to
and assign value to.
But the smaller things
are often overlooked.
For example, your
day-to-day speech
should be taken into
consideration too.
How do you interact with people?
Do you come from a
reactionary knee jerk
place, hostile and
unfriendly, or do you
speak mindfully
and thoughtfully?
You should go without saying
that the former doesn't
train a lucid mindset
whereas the latter does.
Which isn't to say
you have to start
censoring yourself and
not speaking your mind,
you should, of course,
continue to do that.
But the point is,
you should speak
precisely and with
consideration for others.
The more you do
this, the more you'll
cultivate a lucid mindset.
And now, with all
of this in place,
we arrive at sleep itself.
It's time to lucid dream, right?
Sure.
That's coming.
But first, we need to be mindful
of all sleeping conditions.
After all, what's the
use of living lucidly
if we then go to bed in
uncomfortable, unpleasant
conditions?
So let's think.
What's the room looking like?
Is it dark enough?
It should be as dark
as you can get it,
which means no electronics.
Turn them all off.
Put up blackout
blinds if you have to.
Any bit of light can
negatively affect your sleep.
So be strict about it.
And what about the temperature?
Is it cool enough?
If it's the middle
of the summer,
this becomes
especially important.
So get the air
conditioning going.
Run the fans, do
whatever you need
to do to get the temperature
down to somewhere in the 60s
Fahrenheit.
And what about sounds?
The room needs to be quiet.
So if you live in a
busy city, perhaps, you
should consider earplugs.
Or maybe you can run some
pink noise in the background.
Outside noises, especially
sudden loud ones
are very likely to wake you
up, and that's obviously
the last thing you want.
So there we have it.
There's a quick lucid living
template to start working with.
Lucid living is so
much more than just
prescribing a set of
rules to follow those.
So view this module as
just a set of pointers.
In time, you'll start
getting a feel for what
it all really means
and you'll come up
with your own
personalized protocol.
Until then, feel free
to lean into some
of these tried and true methods.
They'll serve you well.
[MUSIC PLAYING]